DOC-5353: Added content to the Observability section (#1344)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.0/deploying-operating/observability/metrics.md

---
date: '2023-05-10'
title: "Metrics"
menu:
  corda5:
    parent: corda5-cluster-observability
    identifier: corda5-cluster-metrics
    weight: 2000
section_menu: corda5
---

Metrics provide greater insight into the inner workings of Corda and can be used as the basis for monitoring and alerting.

## Collecting Metrics

All the Corda worker pods expose metrics in Prometheus text format at `/metrics` on port 7000.
By default, this port is not exposed outside the Kubernetes cluster but most observability platforms support

> running an agent within the cluster that will dynamically detect Kubernetes pods exposing Prometheus endpoints and then poll for metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running an agent within the cluster that dynamically detects Kubernetes pods exposing Prometheus endpoints and then polls for metrics.
```

By default, the pods have the following Kubernetes annotations which may be sufficient for some monitoring agents
to automatically scrape the endpoints:

```yaml
prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
prometheus.io/path: "/metrics"
prometheus.io/port: "7000"
```

> These annotations can be disabled by providing the following overrides on the Corda Helm chart:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable these annotations by providing the following overrides on the Corda Helm chart:
```

```yaml
metrics:
    scrape: false
```
If you are using the [Prometheus Operator](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator),
the Corda Helm chart supports the creation of a PodMonitor custom resource.
The PodMonitor should be configured with the labels that the Prometheus Operator is set to discover.
When using the [kube-prometheus-stack](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack)
Helm chart, this is the name of the Helm release for the Prometheus stack. For example:

```yaml
metrics:
podMonitor:
enabled: true
labels:
release: [RELEASE_NAME]
```

### Exported Metrics

The following Corda-specific metrics are exported:

> <table>

Reviewer: Don't think this is necessary?

Author: It's not. The table is generating ok without the tags. Removed.

| Metric | Type | Description |
| :----------- | :----------- | :----------- |
| `corda_flow_run_time_seconds` | Timer | Time it took for a flow to complete successfully or to error. |

> {{</* /table */>}}

Reviewer 2: Is this the right enclosing markup for tables ?

Author: This is what we have in our guidelined for Hugo shortcodes but I don't think it's right either. Updated table formatting and generating a preview to see how it look like on the site.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to call a shortcode for tables 🤔

Reviewer 3: What did the table shortcode originally do, does anyone know (if anything)?

Reviewer: Don't know - never used it!

Author: I tested the table and the tags are not necessary. Removed.

Metrics of type Timer have further metrics with the suffixes `_count`, `_max`, and `_sum` that represent the number of events,
the maximum value, and the cumulative sum of values, respectively.

In addition, the Corda metrics endpoint also includes Caffeine cache metrics (`corda_cache_*`),

> Kafka producer and consumer client metrics (`corda_kafka_*`), JVM metrics (`jvm_`), process metrics (`process_*`),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kafka producer and consumer client metrics (`corda_kafka_*`), JVM metrics (`jvm_`), process metrics (`process_*`),
```

Should this be:

JVM metrics (`jvm_*`),

Author: updated
